- LOINC (Logical Observation Identifiers Names and Codes) for lab test
- ICD (International Classification of Disease) for diagnosis disease
- CPT (Current Procedural Terminology) for procedure
- NDC (National Drug Code) for medication

SNOMED (Systemized Nomenclature of Medicine) for medical ontology to connect all above

UMLS (Unified Medical Language System) as a software to process all above
# ICD (International Classification of Disease)
Developed by WHO, for disease
## ICD-9
aaa.bc
- a for categories. 17 categories (numerical) + supplementary categories (start with V or E). 
- b for subcategories.
- c for subclassification. 
## ICD-10
aaa.bcde
- a for categories.
- b for etiology.
- c for body part.
- d for severity details.
- e for extension.
## ICD-9 <-> ICD-10
Typically it's a one-to-many relationship
# CPT (Current Procedural Terminology)
Maintained and copyrighted by AMA, for medical procedure. It's a US standard. 
- Category I: 5 digits
- Category II: 4 digits + F, for quality metrics
- Category III: 4 digits + T, for experimental use
# LOINC (Logical Observation Identifiers Names and Codes)
Created by Regenstrief Institute, for lab test. 
- LOINC code, e.g. 2865-4
- LOINC attribute contain different parts separate by colon, \<component\>:\<property of observation\>:\<time aspect\>:\<system type\>:\<scale\>:\<method\>
# NDC (National Drug Code)
Maintained by FDA. NDC code have 3 parts,
- part 1 is the labeler, company produce this drug, 4 or 5 digit.
- part 2 is the product code
- part 3 is the package code
# SNOMED (Systemized Nomenclature of Medicine)
Maintained by IHTSDO, in Denmark. 
- To encode the meanings of health information
- To support effective clinical recording of data
## Development Process
- IHTSDO: maintain the international version
- Members: have their own national release center
- Reference Set: each country have their own version, typically a subset of the international version.
## Logical Model
- Descriptions: human readable version of the concept
- Concept: have a SNOMED identifiers
- Relationships: e.g. "is a" relationship, "associated morphology" relationship, etc.
SNOMED has a hierarchies based on "is a" relationship.

# UMLS (Unified Medical Language System)
Maintained by US National Library of Medicine.

It have 3 knowledge sources:
- Metathesaurus: over 1 million biomedical concepts
- Semantic Network: 135 broad categories and 54 relationships.
- Specialist Lexicon & Tools: lexical information for language processing.

## Metathesaurus
- Atom (~7.4m), AUI: concept name in a given source.
- String (~6.1m), SUI, distinct concept name.
- Term (~5.5m), LUI, set of normalized names.
- Concept (~1.5m), CUI, set of synonymous concept names.
An ID is A/S/L/C with 7 numbers
## Semantic Network
Organized all the CUI into hierarchies and relationships.
## Specialist Lexicon
- English lexicon of 330k biomedical terms
- Lexical tools: MMTX, MetaMap.
