1. Prediction Target
2. Cohort Construction
3. Feature Construction
4. Feature Selection
5. Predictive Model
6. Performance Evaluation
The process is typically iterative. 
## Prediction Target
The intersection between "interesting" & "possible". 
- Interesting: talk to domain experts, read domain publications, or general common sense.
- Possible: human performance, experience from similar projects, results from prior publication.
## Cohort Construction
We generally ignore this step in general machine learning, since a dataset is given. But in health care predictive modeling, we need to create a dataset first.
We want to avoid obvious models (e.g. age predict mortality), and focus on the population of interests, and data acquisition cost.

|               | Cohort               | Case-control               |
| ------------- | -------------------- | -------------------------- |
| Prospective   | Prospective Cohort   | Prospective Case-control   |
| Retrospective | Retrospective Cohort | Retrospective Case-control |
### Prospective vs. Retrospective
- Prospective: identify the study population before collecting data. More expensive; take longer time.
- Retrospective: identify the study population after data is collected and trace back the data. More noise in the data; common on large dataset.
### Cohort Study
Select a group of patients who are exposed to the risk.
### Case-control Study
Cases: positive data
Control: negative data, but other criteria are similar to cases (matching criteria).
Cases + Control = Cohort

Group Matching: control have the same proportion on certain features as cases.
Individual Matching: each control matched to a case on a set of features; or use propensity matching, compute logistic regression model and match a case to a control with the same score from the logistic regression. 

## Feature Construction
observation window -> index day -> prediction window -> diagnosis date

large observation window + small prediction window = easy for modeling
small observation window + large prediction window = more useful model

## Feature Selection
Feature types: demographics, symptoms, diagnosis, medications, lab results, vitals.
But only some features are relevant. 

### Predictive Model
