
|                     | Actual Positive | Actual Negative |
| ------------------- | --------------- | --------------- |
| Prediction Positive | True Positive   | False Positive  |
| Prediction Negative | False Negative  | True Negative   |
accuracy = (TP + TN) / Total
f1_score = 2 * (Precision * Recall) / (Precision + Recall)

# Classification Metric
ROC (Receiver Operating Characteristic), plotting the TP rate against FP rate based on different threshold. 
# Regression Metric
MAE (Mean Absolute Error) $= \frac{1}{n} \sum_i |y_i - \hat{y}_i|$
MSE (Mean Squared Error) $= \frac{1}{n} \sum_i (y_i - \hat{y}_i)^2$]
Coefficient of determination $R^2 = 1 - \frac{\sum_i (y_i - \hat{y}_i)^2}{\sum_i (y_i - \bar{y}_i)^2}$, maximum value is 1. $R^2$ best value is 1, means predict perfectly. $R^2$ can go to negative, means the prediction is worse than simple average. 

# Clustering Metric
## Rand Index
Given $n$ data points, $X$ clustering assignment and $Y$ ground truth.
1. Let $a$ be the number of pairs that belong to the same cluster in $X$ and $Y$.
2. Let $b$ be the number of pairs that belong to the different cluster in $X$ and $Y$.
3. $RI = \frac{2(a + b)}{n(n-1)}$
This is bounded between 0 and 1, 0 means bad clustering and 1 means perfect clustering. 

Pros: Bounded range $[0, 1]$ where 0 means bad and 1 means good. No assumption on cluster shapes. 
Cons: Require ground truth. 
## Mutual Information
Given $X$ clustering assignments, and $Y$ ground truth.
- The entropy $H(X) = \sum_{x \in X} p(x) \log p(x)$. The value is between 0 and 1, 0 means deterministic, and 1 means completely random. 
- The mutual information $MI(X, Y) = \sum_{x \in X} \sum_{y \in Y} p(x, y) \log \frac{p(x, y)}{p(x)p(y)}$.
- Normalized mutual information $NMI(X, Y) = \frac{MI(X, Y)}{\sqrt{H(X)H(Y)}}$.

Pros: Bounded range $[0, 1]$ where 0 means bad and 1 means good. No assumption on cluster shapes. 
Cons: Require ground truth. 

## Silhouette Coefficient
Given data point $x$, and a cluster $C$ containing $x$, and a cluster $C'$ that is next nearest cluster to $x$.
$$a = \frac{1}{|C|} \sum_{y \in C} ||x - y||, b = \frac{1}{|C'|} \sum_{y \in C'} ||x - y||$$
and the silhouette coefficient is defined as
$$s(x) = \frac{b - a}{\max(a, b)}$$
The entire clustering quality will be averaged of silhouette coefficient of all points. 

Pros: Bounded between -1 and 1, where -1 means bad and 1 means good.
Cons: assume spherical clusters. 